Hi friends.
In our previous sections, right?
We have seen how to automate snapshots of EBS volumes using AWS Lambda and CloudWatch.
And that concept is only for one region.
No.
If I want to take snapshots of EBS volumes for all regions with one single script.
How you can proceed.
Right?
So simply here we are going to discuss automate
snapshots of EBS volumes for all transients.
Alright, see, to implement this,
right, let me implement of cone on localhost first.
Then we copy and paste this code on your lambda.
Ok, I'm sorry, year guys.
So my intention is actually,
if you observe already we have a chord and this chord, right?
In our previous section,
we implemented this core to take snapshot of your EBS volumes through your lambda.
And we can also run your code from your local host.
And whatever the code you are having,
that is for only one region.
Now my intention is I want to repeat this,
I want to repeat this core for all regions, that's it.
So before going to repeat this code for all regions,
tried to collect all regions with your moto three skip,
then, just repeat this logic for all regions, right?
See, what I'm doing is first I'm going to collect all my regions.
So here's, as of now, I am implementing my code from localhost.
That's why I'm going to create a session first.
Remember that in order to create any session,
if you're running your core from lambda.
But as of now, I am running from my local host.
So simply oceanic coast to Buto,
three dot dot your session.
Then you have to provide your for filename equals to underscore RO.
Alright, so from first session onwards we are using this as a profile.
Lynn.
If you want to change any profile, you can change it.
The only thing you just to configure your enemies,
configure hyphen, hyphen profile your Profile Name,
and then pass the credentials, right?
Fine.
Now let me create my EC2 client object.
You can go with the client as well as a resource.
So our previous code is width, yeah, client, right?
And one more thing. I have given
the same code in terms of I forgot to explain these guys first,
let me go through this.
Whatever the code you implemented to take snapshot in
this previous video is using your client object.
Right?
Now, I already given a core to take
snapshot of your EBS volumes in terms of resource object, right?
Let me open that core.
I think this is the one.
See here, right here,
I have created my resource object. Same concept.
What you have to do is this is from localhost device.
If you want to run the score from your lambda,
you have to copy and paste this entire court under your Lambda handler.
And because the execution part will start from here that whatever the code you,
how here, write that code,
you just copy and paste it in your under Lambda handler
so that your code is now in terms of your resource object.
Okay?
Okay, anyway, you can go and proceed with either client or resource.
There I explained with resource as well,
just how given a query,
just go through that. That's fine.
Whatever it may be, you have a code to implement your snapshot using client object here.
Right now our intention is I want to repeat that code for multiple regions.
That means automatically, my code has to take
a snapshot of your EBS volumes for all regions.
That's why first, I'm trying to collect my all regions for my EBS volumes, right.
Let me create my EC2 client.
That is nothing but from your session.
Client.
Then service name.
It goes to EC2.
Then let me take some region name.
Us is to one.
So as already, we house somewhere core to
display or to get all your regions of your EC2, right?
So directly I am going to write that code because
already we explained that in our previous videos.
For each region in your EC2,
client dot describe regents.
When, if you remember, we have a key called regions.
Then let me print first your region, region name.
Let me save this and grander c,
the output, what you are going to get.
Now you're able to get all your regions,
right automatically or identifying the regions which are
available in your AWS for your ec2 service right?
Now let me take one list.
All regions equals to knowing
shop printing just I want to store all regions in this variable.
That's it.
Now in your hand you how all regions, right?
Now you need to execute whatever the code you
how to take snapshot that for each and every region, right?
See, this is for one region, right?
Let me copy this.
If you're importing pre-print model.
Yeah. Let me take this part.
First. I will write the code on your local host.
Right? Anyway, we just absorbed this core.
And this give me a second.
So this is the core, right?
To take snapshot of for one region.
Now if you have done, you are creating in
this one client that is with respect to your region name.
Right? Now that's what you have to do is let me write this like a for each region.
In all regions.
So now print just observed
that working on whatever region you,
how
sorry,
h region.
Let me save this and run this and see the outward first.
See working on, working on there means you are
able to take one-by-one region from your account.
Right?
Now, create again a client object for each and every region separately.
That's why a, what you have to do is equals to now the region name is this one.
So now automatically you are able to create your client object for each and every region.
Now you are going to repeat this logic for
this many number of times because for each region you have to create your client object.
Alright, then, so this is your core.
Now you how in your hand this easy to client object for a particular region.
Just to repeat this once, right?
And then it is going to take one more region.
Then just repeat this logic for once again, right?
So integrating that coherent sell what I'm doing is,
yeah, you can write it right
here. Let me copy this
from here. The trick.
Right.
Now if you save this and run this,
right, you are going to
get one by one region and they are going to take snapshot for you are one-by-one regime.
That's it, right?
The only thing is you are repeating this logic for all regions.
So your concept is you need to understand.
First you have to collect all your regions that
automatically you are collecting from your boat O3 itself.
Then once you have all your regions in your hand, again,
you how to create your plane for each and every region,
right, automatically you are creating your client.
Then for a particular region and for that region you are repeating your logic.
Let me save this and run this.
So before that, let me open anyway,
I don't have any volumes in other regions.
Right.
So as of know-how to volumes Simon snapshots here,
if I run our code has to take two more because I have only
given secondaries here.
Actually I'm using Python three, right?
So python three needs parenthesis for you, our print statement.
So what do we help bring and just provide
this and see working on this,
there are no snapshot list of volumes, right?
Is our MD snapshot already sought empty?
Right?
So we can include one modal logic here actually that is if list off volume IDs or empty.
Let me stop this code.
That last case, suppose where you're getting a list of volume mighty CIA, This one.
Right? So if list off volume IDs or empty,
then monitor take snapshots slips right here I am writing
if list of IDs or Boolean off this list of IDs.
If it is equals to false.
And simply I am writing continues so that it won't
take your snapshot because he fully stuff volume IDs are not present then non-intuitive.
Continue your Lehman in logic.
That's why I'm including the snow.
Let me rerun this.
I'll see the output. You will get the difference.
Working on us saying,
no, it is not taking any snapshot because anyway,
you don't have any volume or is that going to take now only in
US East One we have out there to take some time just after the output.
Yes, nobody's taking a snapshot on this.
Right now it will take some time because we included some waiters also, right?
So here's the code just to take a snapshot for all regions at a time.
Now the only thing if you want to schedule your job three or lambda, right?
And using Cloud watch,
let me copy this code and
I need to provide some spaces here.
Take this code and go and lambda, right?
So instead of this code,
let me delete this part up to this.
Right?
Now, copy this and paste it.
We already provide spaces known enough.
Input mode or three already we input or somewhere.
And don't create session here, Reno,
whenever if you are working from lambda, right?
Don't take any session that it'll be hard to take from before IT session that
is nothing but Bhutto three dot plane because you are assigning IAM roles.
That's it.
Save it.
Right?
So whereas here you have a one challenge that
see how many volumes IDs you are going to take here.
Right? So based on that,
you need to change your time, right?
So once if you test your environment,
then you can expect your time and you can change your time here.
Okay.
Now let me come here.
Is it done?
Yeah, it's done for all regions, right?
See if the volumes are empty,
then it is not going to take a snapshot.
See here. Here we have some volumes.
That way it is going to take, right?
It was snapshots, but here it is not going to take in
the below is not going to take any structural because volumes are empty.
So finally, this code is working for all regions, okay, stride forward.
You can take these core and you can use it in your yard.
And the only challenge in your real time A's see based
on how many volumes eddies you are expecting through this lambda core, right?
Based on that, you need to provide
some execution time Anita unit to take some extra execution time here.
So as of now I have taken right, simply ten.
But maybe you need to take some extra time.
Right?
Okay. Thank you for watching this video.